AUTHENTICATION_SETUP.md, before:

# Firebase Authentication Setup Complete! 🔐

## **What's Been Implemented:**

### ✅ **Authentication System**
- Firebase Auth integration
- Login/Signup forms with beautiful UI
- Protected admin routes
- Logout functionality in navigation
- Authentication context for state management

### ✅ **Components Created**
- `AuthContext` - Manages authentication state
- `LoginForm` - Email/password login
- `SignupForm` - Account creation
- `ProtectedRoute` - Guards admin routes
- Updated `Navigation` with logout button

### ✅ **Pages Created**
- `/auth/login` - Login page
- `/auth/signup` - Signup page
- All admin routes now protected

---

## **🔧 Next Steps Required:**

### **1. Enable Authentication in Firebase Console**

1. Go to [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/)
2. Select your project
3. Go to **Authentication** → **Sign-in method**
4. Enable **Email/Password** authentication
5. Optionally enable **Email link (passwordless sign-in)**

### **2. Update Firestore Security Rules**

Replace your current Firestore rules with:

```javascript
rules_version = '2';
service cloud.firestore {
  match /databases/{database}/documents {
    // Blog posts - anyone can read, only authenticated users can write
    match /posts/{postId} {
      allow read: if true;
      allow write: if request.auth != null;
    }
  }
}
```

### **3. Test the Authentication**

1. **Start your development server:**
   ```bash
   pnpm dev
   ```

2. **Create an account:**
   - Go to `http://localhost:3000/auth/signup`
   - Create your admin account

3. **Test login:**
   - Go to `http://localhost:3000/auth/login`
   - Sign in with your credentials

4. **Test protection:**
   - Try accessing `/admin` without being logged in
   - Should redirect to login page

---

## **🎯 Features:**

- ✅ **Secure Admin Area** - Only authenticated users can access
- ✅ **Beautiful UI** - Modern login/signup forms
- ✅ **Responsive Design** - Works on all devices
- ✅ **Dark Mode Support** - Adapts to system preference
- ✅ **Error Handling** - Clear error messages
- ✅ **Loading States** - Smooth user experience
- ✅ **Logout Functionality** - Easy sign out

---

## **🚀 Ready to Use!**

Your portfolio now has a complete authentication system! Once you enable Firebase Auth and update the security rules, you'll have a fully secure admin area for managing your blog posts.

**Admin URL:** `http://localhost:3000/admin`
**Login URL:** `http://localhost:3000/auth/login`
**Signup URL:** `http://localhost:3000/auth/signup`

Commit message:

Enhance navigation to display "Admin" link for authenticated users and "Login" link for unauthenticated users. Update documentation to reflect new smart navigation feature.

AUTHENTICATION_SETUP.md, after:

# Firebase Authentication Setup Complete! 🔐

## **What's Been Implemented:**

### ✅ **Authentication System**
- Firebase Auth integration
- Login/Signup forms with beautiful UI
- Protected admin routes
- Logout functionality in navigation
- Authentication context for state management

### ✅ **Components Created**
- `AuthContext` - Manages authentication state
- `LoginForm` - Email/password login
- `SignupForm` - Account creation
- `ProtectedRoute` - Guards admin routes
- Updated `Navigation` with logout button

### ✅ **Pages Created**
- `/auth/login` - Login page
- `/auth/signup` - Signup page
- All admin routes now protected

---

## **🔧 Next Steps Required:**

### **1. Enable Authentication in Firebase Console**

1. Go to [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com/)
2. Select your project
3. Go to **Authentication** → **Sign-in method**
4. Enable **Email/Password** authentication
5. Optionally enable **Email link (passwordless sign-in)**

### **2. Update Firestore Security Rules**

Replace your current Firestore rules with:

```javascript
rules_version = '2';
service cloud.firestore {
  match /databases/{database}/documents {
    // Blog posts - anyone can read, only authenticated users can write
    match /posts/{postId} {
      allow read: if true;
      allow write: if request.auth != null;
    }
  }
}
```

### **3. Test the Authentication**

1. **Start your development server:**
   ```bash
   pnpm dev
   ```

2. **Create an account:**
   - Go to `http://localhost:3000/auth/signup`
   - Create your admin account

3. **Test login:**
   - Go to `http://localhost:3000/auth/login`
   - Sign in with your credentials

4. **Test protection:**
   - Try accessing `/admin` without being logged in
   - Should redirect to login page

---

## **🎯 Features:**

- ✅ **Secure Admin Area** - Only authenticated users can access
- ✅ **Beautiful UI** - Modern login/signup forms
- ✅ **Responsive Design** - Works on all devices
- ✅ **Dark Mode Support** - Adapts to system preference
- ✅ **Error Handling** - Clear error messages
- ✅ **Loading States** - Smooth user experience
- ✅ **Logout Functionality** - Easy sign out
- ✅ **Smart Navigation** - Shows "Admin" when logged in, "Login" when not

---

## **🚀 Ready to Use!**

Your portfolio now has a complete authentication system! Once you enable Firebase Auth and update the security rules, you'll have a fully secure admin area for managing your blog posts.

**Admin URL:** `http://localhost:3000/admin`
**Login URL:** `http://localhost:3000/auth/login`
**Signup URL:** `http://localhost:3000/auth/signup`
